fix(tem): blocklist (#4288)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/transactional-email/how-to/manage-blocklists.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to manage Transactional Email blocklists
  description: This page provides instructions how to improve the quality of your email deliveries and maintain your domain's reputation score with TEM blocklists.
content:
  h1: How to manage Transactional Email blocklists
  paragraph: This page provides instructions how to improve the quality of your email deliveries and maintain your domain's reputation score with TEM blocklists.
tags: blocklist reputation transactional
dates:
  validation: 2025-01-20
  posted: 2025-01-20
categories:
  - managed-services
---

The Transactional Email blocklist feature allows your to manage email addresses that generate errors, or “bounces”. This helps you improve the quality of your email deliveries, maintain your domain's reputation score, and reduce the risk of having your domains blocked by ISPs.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)

> - [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

Reviewer: It needs to describe the exact permission list it needs to manage blocklist. As a user, arriving to the full permission page doesn't help me much. Could be frustrating to not find info close to the page documenting the feature.

  - `Mailbox not found` - when mailbox does not exist
  - `Mailbox full` - when the mailbox is full.

The temporary blocklist entry is created automatically to prevent repeated attempts to send e-mails, which could damage your reputation.

To see the blocklist:

1. Click **Transactional Email** in the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. Your domains display.
2. Click the domain for which you want to manage the blocklist. An overview of your domain appears.
3. Click the **Blocklist** tab. Your blocklist displays detailing the recipient email, the flags, the date the block began and when it ends.

<Message type="tip">
  You can [create webhooks](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/create-webhooks) for the following blocklist events:
    - `email_blocklisted` - An email was blocked by an active blocklist.
    - `blocklist_created` - A blocklist is created for an email address. Any new emails sent by the address will be blocked.

  By setting up a blocklist webhook, you can track changes to your blocklist in real time.
</Message>

> ## How to unblock an email address

Reviewer: It could be useful to have a note mentioning the rate limit on this feature. A user cannot delete more than 5 blocklist during a 24 hours window.

---
meta:
  title: How to manage Transactional Email blocklists
  description: This page provides instructions how to improve the quality of your email deliveries and maintain your domain's reputation score with TEM blocklists.
content:
  h1: How to manage Transactional Email blocklists
  paragraph: This page provides instructions how to improve the quality of your email deliveries and maintain your domain's reputation score with TEM blocklists.
tags: blocklist reputation transactional
dates:
  validation: 2025-01-20
  posted: 2025-01-20
categories:
  - managed-services
---

The Transactional Email blocklist feature allows your to manage email addresses that generate errors, or “bounces”. Emails are automatically blocked when a mailbox does not exist, or is full, to prevent sending emails to a recipient address that is not reachable.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)

> - [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization. For blocklists your can apply the `TransactionalEmailBlocklistFullAccess` permission

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization. For blocklists your can apply the `TransactionalEmailBlocklistFullAccess` permission
```

> - [Configured your domain(s) with Transactional Email](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/configure-domain-with-transactional-email/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Configured your domain(s) with Transactional Email](/transactional-email/how-to/configure-domain-with-transactional-email/)
```

## How to monitor temporary blocklists

> If any of your emails were bounced, you will see a temporary blocklist entry, with a duration of 48 hours, containing the details of the email that bounced and the reason, or flag. Some examples of bounce reasons are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If any of your emails bounced, you will see a temporary blocklist entry, with a duration of 48 hours, containing the details of the email that bounced and the reason, or flag. Some examples of bounce reasons are:
```

  - `Mailbox not found` - when mailbox does not exist
  - `Mailbox full` - when the mailbox is full.

The temporary blocklist entry is created automatically to prevent repeated attempts to send emails, which could damage your reputation.

To see the blocklist:

1. Click **Transactional Email** in the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. Your domains display.

> 2. Click the domain for which you want to manage the blocklist. An overview of your domain appears.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click the domain whose blocklist you want to manage. An overview of your domain appears.
```

> 3. Click the **Blocklist** tab. Your blocklist displays detailing the recipient email, the flags, the date the block began and when it ends.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Blocklist** tab. Your blocklist displays, detailing the recipient email, the flags, the date the block began, and when it ends.
```

<Message type="tip">

>   You can [create webhooks](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/create-webhooks) for the following blocklist events:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You can [create webhooks](/transactional-email/how-to/create-webhooks) for the following blocklist events:
```

    - `email_blocklisted` - An email was blocked by an active blocklist.

>     - `blocklist_created` - A blocklist is created for an email address. Any new emails sent by the address will be blocked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - `blocklist_created` - A blocklist was created for an email address. Any new emails sent by the address will be blocked.
```

  By setting up a blocklist webhook, you can track changes to your blocklist in real time.
</Message>

## How to unblock an email address

You can unblock any address that was added to the blocklist. This is useful in cases where:

- A temporary error has been corrected. The recipient has freed up space in their mailbox, for example.
- An address becomes valid again after an update.

<Message type="note">
  You can unblock up to five addresses every 24 hours.
</Message>

1. Click **Transactional Email** in the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. Your domains display.

> 2. Click the domain for which you want to manage the blocklist. An overview of your domain appears.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click the domain whose blocklist you want to manage. An overview of your domain appears.
```
